.\" Manpage for bcut.
.\" Contact pwslts@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "10 Nov 2014" "1.0" "bcut man page"
.SH NAME
bcut \- cut out selected portions of each line of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bcut
OPTION... [\fIFILE\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The bcut utility cuts out selected portions of each line (as specified by list) 
from each file and writes them to the standard output. If no file arguments are 
specified, or a file argument is a single dash (`-'), cut reads from the 
standard input. The items specified by list can be in terms of column position 
or in terms of fields delimited by a special character.

Use one, and only one of -b, -c or -f. Each LIST is made up of one range, or 
many ranges separated by commas. Selected input is written in the same order 
that it is read, and is written exactly once. Each range is one of:

N    N'th byte, character or field, counted from 1

N-   from N'th byte, character or field, to end of line

N-M  from N'th to M'th (included) byte, character or field

-M   from first to M'th (included) byte, character or field
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-bytes =\fILIST\fR
The list specifies byte positions.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-characters =\fILIST\fR
The list specifies character positions.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delimiter =\fIDELIM\fR
Use delim as the field delimiter character instead of the tab character.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-fields =\fILIST\fR
The list specifies fields, separated in the input by the field delimiter 
character (see the -d option). Output fields are separated by a single 
occurrence of the field delimiter character.
.TP
.BR \-n
ignored
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-complement
complement the set of selected bytes, characters or fields
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-only-delimited
Suppress lines with no field delimiter characters.  Unless specified, lines with
no delimiters are passed through unmodified.
.TP
.BR \-\-output-delimiter =\fIDELIM\fR
use DELIM as the output delimiter. The default is to use the input delimiter
.TP
.BR \-\-help
display help and exit
.TP
.BR \-\-version
display version information and exit
.SH EXAMPLES
Extract users' login names and shells from the system passwd(5) file as
"name:shell" pairs:
.PP
.nf
.RS
bcut -d ':' -f 1,7 /etc/passwd
.RE
.fi
.PP

Show the names and login times of the currently logged in users:
.PP
.nf
.RS
who | bcut -c 1-16,26-38
.RE
.fi
.PP

.SH ENVIRONMENT

The LANG, LC_ALL and LC_CTYPE environment variables affect the execution of cut 
as described in environ(7).
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Pawel 'l0ner' Soltys <pwslts@gmail.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bcut bugs to it's github page issue tracker:
.br
<https://github.com/l0ner/bcut/issues>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2014 Pawel 'l0ner' Soltys

License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
.br
<http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO 
WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cut(1), 
.BR paste(1)
